>> REGINA MEREDITH:
They call him Dr. Detox.
Edward Group III has
been on a campaign
to help people clean out their
guts for a couple of decades
and would say that the
majority of disease
begins with an unhealthy colon.
When the colon is diseased,
the toxic contents
begin to wreak havoc
with all of our systems,
and we begin to develop
chronic disease.
Dr. Group says
almost all of it can
be reversed with a little
education and self-care, which
he explains in his book
"The Green Body Cleanse."
What a fabulous book.
I consider that to be
a service to humankind
for having written that.
It's not only detailed,
but it gives you
the context for what
happens very clearly,
but it also gives
you the solutions.
And that's the important part.
Anyway, welcome.
>> EDWARD GROUP: Thank you.
Thanks for having me on.
I appreciate it.
>> REGINA: It's good
to see you again.
It's been a few years.
You know what I thought
we'd start with,
because you have such
an intriguing background
personally, really
of a familial nature,
I thought we might start out by
talking a little bit about some
of the really deep-- I wouldn't
say karmic-- but a deep drive
you have to do what you can
help clean up the planet,
including the inside
of our bodies,
by starting with your
dad and some of what
he was doing back when
and even your grandfather,
great-grandfather.
So tell us a little bit
about Edward Group III.
>> GROUP: Well, this is just
recently I found out this
information.
But since I was a little
boy I was having visions,
and I didn't really understand
why I was here on the planet.
And my dad was a
chemist for Exxon.
As a matter of fact, I was
in psychiatrists' offices
all the time.
And back then they
didn't have ADD, ADHD,
or autism or anything like that,
but I was just a strange child.
Later I found out I
was an indigo child,
and things were explained
to me a little bit better.
But I always knew I
wanted to help humanity.
I always had a love for
animals, a love for the Earth,
and everything.
But I kind of wanted
to be a medical doctor.
And that's before I knew
anything about pharmaceuticals
or the damage that they
cause or anything like that.
So I started out doing premed.
And just before I was going
to go into medical school,
I met a guy that was doing
alternative medicine.
And I'd studied all this stuff
and studied all the stuff
preparing myself
for medical school,
but then this guy challenged
me, and he was treating cancer
using alternative medicine.
And I said, oh, that's
quackery, blah, blah, blah.
And he said, well just
go to the library.
Prove to me what
I'm saying is wrong.
So I went to the library.
I looked up a couple
pharmaceuticals
and found out that they weren't
doing anything for the body.
They weren't actually treating
or reversing anything.
All it was doing was
putting a Band-Aid over it.
It was a way to get
rid of the symptoms
but not address the root cause.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GROUP: Then my dad came down
with cancer and ended up dying
of cancer.
And I knew he was involved
doing some work in the Reagan
administration with the
cocaine problem that
was down in South America.
And my dad was the
co-developer of PVC plastics,
doing a lot of
work with plastics.
And then also he was a
developer of Saran Wrap.
So up until a few
years ago, I thought
that I was here to help kind
of clean up what my family did.
But the more that I started
looking into my family,
the more that was
coming my way, and I
started realizing how
deep my family was.
I realized that eight
generations back
my great-great-great-grandfather
was Noah Webster.
He was the one that wrote
the "Webster's Dictionary."
And in the "Webster's
Dictionary" is a Masonic code
in there.
And then we traced
the family history
all the way back to
Pelatiah Webster,
who was the original writer
of the US Constitution.
And most people don't know that.
That information
has been suppressed.
So my family has a long history
with not necessarily doing
a lot of good for the people.
Because as I started
doing more research--
>> REGINA: Illuminous is
a word that might come up.
>> GROUP: Illuminati,
Masons, stuff like that,
which were designed to kind
of control and try to develop
things that were harmful
to the Earth and then also
to the human race.
So what my mission
is, leading up
to the time when I was meeting
with this guy, when I realized
that pharmaceuticals
weren't going
to do any good for
the body, I literally
had this experience driving
home where I don't even
remember what happened.
All I can remember is that I
could feel the tears coming
down my cheeks, and my hands
were off the wheel of the car.
And it must've been for
probably about five minutes.
It was just God driving
the car, whatever.
And I just saw this
picture of healing
the body the natural way and
moving into a whole nother
direction but utilizing the
mind, the body, and the soul
and teaching people
how to heal themselves.
So at that point in time,
I went back to this guy.
I told him, teach
me everything you
know about natural medicine.
I luckily was blessed with
a good photographic memory,
so I can learn really
fast, especially
if I'm interested
in the subject.
So I got all the books I
could on promoting yourself
naturally, all the
books on herbology,
went to chiropractic college,
went to naturopathic school.
Although those also
teach you to prescribe.
And I didn't learn
later on really
what the main focus of
healing the body really was.
So that led me into creating
a degenerative disease
clinic in Houston in 1998.
And at that point, we started
experimenting and using
natural methods but
also teaching the people
how to heal themself.
Because one thing we
learned is that everybody
has a self-healing
mechanism inside their body.
What a doctor's real job
is is to teach that person
or to help that
person reactivate
their own self-healing
mechanism to get better.
>> REGINA: Well, you were
also working with cancer a lot
at your clinic, right?
And you were having
some incredible results.
And this has been
a while ago now.
What happened?
How come you didn't
continue that?
I know that's a touchy
subject when you're
trying to go outside of the box.
>> GROUP: Right.
What we were doing was
cleaning people out really good
and detoxifying them,
getting their bowels clean,
getting their liver clean again.
Because we realized
that all disease--
it doesn't matter what it is,
whether it's cancer, heart
disease, arthritis-- it's
all due to the accumulation
of toxins in the body.
And those toxins then,
in turn, cause the organs
to malfunction, the
cells the malfunction,
so you either get cancer,
diabetes, heart disease,
arthritis, whatever.
We were focusing on
cancer because that
was the hardest
thing to get rid of.
>> REGINA: And you
liked the challenge.
I remember reading
in your book you
wanted the challenge
of the hardest cases.
>> GROUP: Right.
If we could get rid of
cancer or teach somebody
how to get rid of cancer,
then anything else was easy.
So we started working
with cancer patients.
And after they had even been--
had gone through chemotherapy,
had gone through radiation,
which kills off the normal
cells--
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GROUP: --and we started
having some really good
results.
>> REGINA: Now
that's interesting.
Because a lot of
people say, yes, we
have this wonderful
protocol, et cetera.
However, if you've already
started the radiation
or chemotherapy,
all bets are off.
It probably won't work.
I've heard that from a lot
of alternative practitioners.
But you're saying
in spite of that you
were able to help them.
>> GROUP: One of the things
I learned is I went down
to Mexico, and I learned all
the different types of therapies
they were doing down there.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GROUP: One thing that they
weren't doing that nobody was
doing in the cancer industry was
detoxifying the body extremely
well before they started
giving them and the anti-cancer
medications.
Gerson's Clinic does so much
with juicing, which is great,
because that detoxifies
the body and gives
the body the opportunity
so when you give
the cancer-fighting ingredients,
the body can actually absorb
them, can utilize them, and
the body reacts to them.
>> REGINA: I was going to
ask you what you thought
of the Gerson Clinic.
And again, they're forced
down across the border.
Everybody's across the border.
>> REGINA: Well, the reason,
to get back to your original
question, is they do not
want people to find out.
And what happened with
me is people showed up.
They took me away.
They said stop
what you're doing.
You're going to end up dead or
we're going to shut you down
or you're going
to end up in jail.
>> REGINA: You were literally--
>> GROUP: This was literally--
>> REGINA: --approached.
>> GROUP: I had death threats.
And they explained
to me-- back then
I was only in my early 30s.
And so they said, we
have the most money
going into the cancer industry.
It's a trillion dollar industry.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GROUP: We have the best
scientists in the world that
are supposedly working
on a cancer cure.
Of course, they'll
never find one,
because there's too
much money in it.
We cannot allow the public to
find out that a 30-year-old
chiropractor is having better
results with cancer than
the major systems and the
major medical hospitals,
such as MD Anderson.
>> REGINA: They
actually gave you that?
They said that?
>> GROUP: They told me that.
They told me that.
MD Anderson still, to this day,
usually only has a 4% to 7%
success rate, and those are
based on four-year survival
rates.
Because they know
that the cancer's
always going to come back
after four or five years.
You still haven't
addressed the reason
why that person had
cancer to begin with,
and that's what we were doing.
When a cancer patient
walked in, the first thing
I would say to them was
tell me why you have cancer.
And they would just
look at me and say,
I don't know why I have cancer.
I said, did any of your
doctors explain to you
why you have cancer?
And I would do that
with every disease.
Tell me why you have diabetes.
Tell me why you have arthritis.
Nobody could tell me why they
had the disease that they had.
And the second
question I would ask
them is, what do you do
for fun in your life?
What makes you happy?
>> REGINA: There you go.
No one asks that.
>> GROUP: And
nobody could answer.
People would break down--
>> REGINA: Isn't
that interesting.
>> GROUP: --and start crying
after I answered that question.
>> REGINA: That's huge.
>> GROUP: Because
everybody that had disease,
everybody that had cancer
was extremely stressed out,
spent no time with themselves
or their family a lot of times,
didn't even know
how to have fun,
didn't have a smile
on their face.
They weren't happy.
They were living in a
negative state with anxiety
and depression and
built-up anger,
and they didn't know how to
release their emotions, which
was a whole nother part
of not only cleansing
the physical body but
cleansing the mental body
and cleansing the
spiritual side of the body
as well so you can get those
blocks and those restrictions
out to allow your body to heal.
Because your body will suppress
all those negative emotions.
>> GROUP: And that also
turns the body acidic.
It tightens up the flow
along the meridians.
It causes all kinds of problems.
And ultimately it causes
problems in the guts, right?
And once that happens, we
started having problems
everywhere.
That's what I'm getting
from your book, right?
>> GROUP: That's right.
And it took us a while
to figure this out,
or it took me a while
because I spent years
on this journey trying
to find the root
cause of all disease.
What is it that's causing so
much disease in this country?
And even when they taught
me how to prescribe
an herb for a headache,
take white willow bark,
or take cascara sagrada
for constipation,
or whatever the herb was, I
started looking and seeing
this big picture, and
that was even wrong.
Because, yes, it's better
to take natural medicine
for a specific condition,
but are you still addressing
the root cause of the condition?
Most of the time, you're not.
I had over 260
supplements, and we
would choose the best
supplements for each thing
from all over the world.
The fact of the matter is
you cannot get high-quality
therapeutic natural products
at any grocery store,
at any discount store, not
even at some of the vitamin
suppliers.
If you're going to find, I
say, high-level, high-grade
nutraceuticals, which
is a concentrated form
of an herb, organically
grown, whatever, you're really
going to have to
search for a company.
You're not going
to find it easily.
So I had herbs being
shipped in from Germany.
I had special formulas coming
in from Sweden, some of them
injectable, some of them
homeopathic, some of them this,
some of them that.
So I had a pharmacy
of 260 different types
of natural high-strength
medications.
And I just kept praying
and praying and praying,
because I've always been
a believer that everything
is in simplicity.
And usually everything is
staring you right there
in the face and you
don't even realize it.
It's like family
members sometimes
that have a
condition, and you're
trying to tell your
family, oh, well, do this,
and your family
never listens to you.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GROUP: They're the hardest to
deal with when there's any type
of condition.
And little do they know
that the answer is actually
right there in their brother
or right there in their son
or right there in their mother.
And it's right there
around them the whole time,
but they don't even realize it.
They just keep going over
here and keep going over there
and keep going over there.
>> REGINA: Well, and people
tend to go wherever they think
authority is.
>> GROUP: Right.
But the whole point
is sometimes--
we need to stop looking
for that authority--
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> GROUP: --and we need to
start looking right around us.
Because if you
ask for something,
most likely it's
going to come to you,
if you're paying attention,
in the way of an email,
or just it could be somebody
that's sitting next to you
at the bar--
>> REGINA: Very true.
>> GROUP: --or on an
airplane or whatever.
It could be right
there in front of you.
So one day I realized-- this
image of the body came to me,
and I saw the disease mechanism.
I saw how all these
chemicals and toxins
were coming into the body.
And I saw them going
and how it was just
wreaking havoc on
all the systems.
The metals were coming in
and going up to the brain
and frying the nerve cells.
And the artificial sweeteners
were reacting with the metals.
We can list a million toxins,
from artificial sweeteners
to metals and all that stuff.
But then try taking a slew
or a soup of all those toxins
and all those chemicals
and mixing them together
and see what happens.
And that's what I saw.
And I saw the body start
to just break down.
And then the
breakthrough was I saw
that the majority, 95% of all
these chemicals and toxins,
were entering the body
through the intestines.
So I was like, oh
my gosh, that's it.
Think about it, the
real secret to health.
And then I started doing
research and realizing
that people aren't having
regular bowel movements.
9 out of 10 people
are constipated.
The medical profession lists if
you have less than three bowel
movements a week
you're constipated,
when should be if you
have less than three bowel
movements a day
you're constipated.
And the more that I dug into
this, the more I was finding
and the more that was revealed.
Why does the medical
profession still
doesn't know what
the appendix does?
That was weird to me.
>> REGINA: Right.
I found that very interesting.
Talk about that for just a sec.
It's important.
>> GROUP: It is important.
Because the more--
>> REGINA: A lot of people
don't have one anymore.
>> GROUP: --that I
started looking into it,
the more that I started
seeing all this suppression.
Because obviously somebody
knows how important
the intestines are.
Because if you
look at the system
that we're in with
the pharmaceutical
and the medical system, when you
understand the money involved,
you understand that it's
in their best interests
to keep everybody sick
as long as they can.
>> REGINA: And the appendix
is a key part of that story--
>> GROUP: Right.
>> REGINA: --as you reveal.
>> GROUP: So why wouldn't
the best scientists,
the best medical researchers in
the world that work for the top
notch medical facilities still
to this day not know what
the appendix is?
That was really weird.
So I had to bring up and
research stuff and pull stuff
from-- usually the best research
comes from Russia or Germany.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
>> GROUP: And a lot of that
stuff is never found here,
and you have to get it
translated and everything else.
And I started finding
research on the appendix,
that the appendix is really
like the microcomputer
of the whole body.
It's like your processor,
like your Intel processor.
And why wouldn't it be, because
it's located in the gut?
That's the first exposure
point that your body--
all the stuff that
comes into your body.
Why wouldn't your
processor and your reader
be sitting right
there that can say,
oh, I have 25 different
types of proteins coming in.
I have calcium.
I have magnesium.
I have this coming in.
And it sends messages to
your endocrine system.
It sends messages to
your neurological system.
Hey, I got some B12
for you coming up here.
It sends messages
to regulate pH.
So this little thing that's
about the size of your finger
really controls every
single thing inside
of your body, the neurological,
the endocrine, everything.
>> REGINA: And yet, as soon as
it's inflamed, it's taken out.
>> GROUP: As soon as it's
inflamed, it's taken out.
So that wasn't the first thing I
found out about the intestines.
The second thing was,
why are doctors not
being taught about the
importance of the intestines?
And so I started asking doctors.
Tell me what you know
about the small intestine.
about the large intestine.
Well, they didn't
really teach us
that much stuff about
the intestines in school.
Hmm.
I wonder why.
Well, the intestines are 35
feet in length, about 20,
25 feet of small
intestine, then you
have about 10 feet of
the large intestine.
But if you take the intestines
out and cut them open,
the surface area is the
size of a tennis court.
So let's just say you
had a tiny amount of dust
in a tennis court and you swept
all that up to the middle.
You would have quite a pile.
That, in combination
with our society,
where we've gone to
more packaged foods,
more harmful manmade type of
foods-- pretty much anything
that you put it in
your mouth these days
is full of toxic
buildup, and the fact
that we've reduced
the amount of exercise
and reduced our
elimination routes,
because the body normally
has efficient ways
to deal with all these toxins
and chemicals coming in.
Women have five
elimination routes.
Men have four ways to
eliminate, through respiration
and sweating, exercise.
You sweat during
exercise, and you
breathe heavy during exercise.
That's 50% of elimination
routes in men alone right there.
But with the computer age,
we've gone to sedentary.
We've got kids
that are obese now.
Nobody's exercising as
much as they should be.
And then they have the
next elimination route
is diaphoresis, which is
another name for sweating,
but also urinalysis,
being able to urinate.
Well, that elimination route's
been blocked in men and women,
because nobody's drinking
enough water these days.
Everybody's drinking
diet drinks.
Everybody's drinking tea.
Everybody's drinking
energy drinks--
>> REGINA: Coffee.
>> GROUP: --coffee,
alcohol, wine.
So we've reduced that.
And all those substances
cause an acid pH
in the body, which is
a whole nother subject.
But we've reduced the water.
So our urine pathways
have been reduced.
And then defecation, nobody's
going to the bathroom
and having enough bowel
movements anymore.
So that's been reduced.
So we've pretty
much closed off--
And then with women, how
many women these days
do you know that have
normal menstrual cycles?
Women are just spotting.
They're having a
menstrual cycle one month.
Then two months
they're without one.
It's crazy.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
It's changed a lot over
the last several decades.
>> GROUP: So we've shut down
all the elimination routes,
so all these toxins continue
to build and build and build
inside the system.
So one of the things
that we started doing
and one of the most
important things
is cleansing the intestines
on a regular basis.
I got rid of all 260 of those
products that I was using,
and we went to a simple method.
Because I saw when you took all
those toxins out of the body,
when the body was clean,
the light came on.
And the body was the best
healing system in the world.
It just was crying
out to be activated.
It was just in so much
pain and so much agony
that it was
overloaded, and it just
could not keep up with the
amount of toxins coming in.
And that's what led us into
the advanced cleansing.
So we started cleansing
the intestinal tract,
cleansing the liver
and gallbladder,
cleansing the chemicals
and the toxins
and the heavy metals
out of the system
and then cleansing the
parasites out of the system.
And yes, every single
person has parasites.
There's no way you
can get around it.
The definition of a
parasite is any organism
that lives off of a
host mechanism that
does that host mechanism harm.
Most people hear the word
parasite and they think worms.
But a parasite is a mycoplasm,
a fungus, a yeast, worms,
bacteria, virus,
and our bodies are
overloaded with those organisms.
What happens is those
organisms take your nutrients.
You might not feel it.
You might just be a little
sluggish all the time.
You might not have
just enough energy.
But those organisms will
take all your nutrients
from your system, not all but
a major percentage of them,
and they will slowly
start degrading your body.
And then the real problem is,
like with cancer patients,
we found that each
one of them had
about 100 trillion harmful
organisms in their body.
And these organisms go to the
bathroom inside your system
or expel waste.
Now if you have 100 trillion
organisms in your system
and they're all taking
your good nutrients
and then they're secreting
formic acid, formaldehyde
as a byproduct, as a waste,
isopropyl alcohol as a waste,
your body starts
to become this acid
and starts getting preserved
from the inside out, which
is from all the waste material
from all these organisms.
So once we clean
all this stuff out,
then the body starts to slowly
reactivate and reactivate
and reactivate,
and then it starts
to heal itself and heal
itself and heal itself.
>> REGINA: OK.
So let's talk about what
happened even as recently as
100 years ago when people were
still living off the land.
Let's say your average
family in a rural area
that had access
to local produce.
They had it in
their own backyard.
They were not using fertilizers,
herbicides, pesticides,
and such.
If they ate meat,
usually they had
to slaughter their own
cow or their own chickens,
which were grass-fed.
Let's look at what was
happening in their guts--
because obviously having
beneficial bacteria
and critters is a
really good thing--
compared to the guts of today
and the level of nutrients
themselves that were in the food
still before it was completely
denuded of all of that.
So, a healthy
profile-- Well, you
just gave us the
unhealthy profile.
Let's talk about
what it was like.
>> GROUP: Well, all you have to
do is look at the people right
now that are in their 90s.
Those are the people that
grew up on the farms.
You can go to-- and
I love doing this
because I'll volunteer-- Any
time I see somebody that's
in their 80s or 90s, I
love to talk to them,
because you can get so
much information from them.
And they'll tell
you the same thing.
Yes, we had our own gardens,
and we grew up and everything.
And they didn't start having
problems until their 60s, 70s.
But a lot of them are
in their 90s right now
and their sons have died or
sons and daughters have died
and their sons and
daughters have died,
and they're still 90
or even up to 100.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GROUP: They had the
beneficial soil-based
microorganisms in the soil.
They put their own
energy into the soil.
There's been research
done that even
if you place a seed underneath
your tongue for nine minutes
that the seed will
read your body system--
>> REGINA: I love that.
>> GROUP: --and be
coated with your mucus.
And if you plant that seed,
when that plant grows,
that plant will provide for
you what your body is missing.
Isn't that amazing?
>> REGINA: Yes.
When I first came in contact
with that information,
I was not only
dumbstruck but in awe
of the synergy between
the plant kingdom
and the human and
animal kingdom.
I mean, that's beautiful
in its implications
of passing pure
information, intelligence
and changing its own
structure and DNA
to be able to feed you
to the best advantage.
Amazing.
>> GROUP: It all boils down to
they were one with the land.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GROUP: They took
care of the land.
The land took care of them.
They ate their own seasonal
foods that they grew.
They were out there working.
Their exercise was putting
their hands in the land.
That's healing by itself.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GROUP: You can put your hands
just in the soil and let it sit
there, and you can feel
the energy from the land.
And people would bury
themselves in soil
sometimes-- the Earth has
an electric voltage to it--
and you would get better.
The water back then,
the water was cleaner.
Now the air is contaminated.
The water is contaminated.
The Earth is contaminated.
You see it.
It's not only humans
that are sick.
When we're sick,
the Earth is sick.
Look at all the oceans.
Look at the trees.
Look at the plants.
We're all connected.
As we all begin to
heal and be healthy,
the whole planet starts to
heal and become healthy.
>> REGINA: And back then, in
that day when life was more
natural and we lived in that
close relationship-- today,
if you were giving
people advice,
you would say stay
away from the cake.
Stay away from the
flour and sugar
and all that sort of thing.
But in that day the quality of
their grains were different.
The types of sugars
they had, the cane
sugars they had gotten from the
southern part of United States
or whatnot was still
different in its processing.
And people commonly
had a dinner that
had meat on the table,
lots of vegetables.
The mother may have
made fresh rolls
and served cake afterward.
But you didn't have
the chronic disease.
If you tried to do that with
ingredients that exist today
on the commercial market, you
would be ill, but not then.
>> GROUP: The key word
then is moderation.
Back then, even if they
made a cake or whatever,
they might have it.
Now it's too easy
to load your body
down with sugar
every single day.
You can have 15 tablespoons
to 30 tablespoons of sugar,
and it's refined
sugar, number one,
which does your
body a lot of harm.
And the way that the whole
food system works now
is it's just so easy
and so cost-effective
to get food that's been
processed, cooked, microwaved.
>> REGINA: Right.
Right.
>> GROUP: There's so many
things out there that can cause
a reaction in the system.
I've talked to people-- this is
how sensitive the bodies are.
Someone can go on a 20-day
organic juice fast--
>> REGINA: Which you just
came off of a few days ago.
>> GROUP: --which I just did.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> GROUP: And this happened.
You can have one single
thing-- because sometimes I'll
have an organic coffee.
And like I said, everything
in moderation your body
can handle.
When it's overloaded
is the problem.
And I was having this severe
pain up in my shoulders
and my neck and my head, and
I couldn't figure it out.
I've been vegetarian
for 12 years.
I'm 90% raw vegan.
I'm pretty healthy.
I exercise every day.
I don't drink alcohol.
I try not to put any
toxins in my body at all.
But I was having a cup
of coffee every couple
of days in the morning.
It was certified organic.
I was using purified
water, and I
was putting a certified organic
coconut-- because I don't even
usually eat dairy, maybe
sometimes if it's raw--
but I was using a
coconut creamer, which
was certified organic.
And I was suffering from
this pain in my shoulders
and my neck for days.
And I was like, what am I doing?
What is going on?
I've got to be
exposed to something.
So I said, the only thing
that I'm doing different
is I'm having a cup of
coffee every couple mornings.
And so I went that
morning, and I
grabbed that certified
organic coconut creamer,
and, sure enough, on
one of the ingredients
was titanium dioxide.
Now there's still a
lot of ingredients
that are approved for
certified organic products
that I don't agree with.
But I typed in titanium dioxide
side effects and everything,
and, sure enough, it
was severe headaches,
muscle pain,
fibromyalgia symptoms.
So I started
digging even deeper.
Think about all the people
that have fibromyalgia.
How many doctors are saying,
it could be only one chemical
out of the millions
of things that you're
putting in your body every day?
It only took one.
That's it.
And it just opened my
eyes up to everything
that I've been talking
about for years.
>> REGINA: And yet we've been
taking in-- most of us are
taking in dozens, hundreds,
maybe thousands a day.
>> GROUP: Thousands a day.
>> REGINA: OK.
So let's get into the guts.
Because one of the areas
that I find interesting,
because it feeds into the
whole profile of allergies--
it seems that often someone
becomes sensitive to, say,
gluten, and they'll
have a panel done.
And then they find out they're
sensitive to eggs and milk
and gluten, a whole array
of things all of a sudden.
But it's all really
sourced back to leaky gut.
Can you explain what leaky
gut is, how that happens,
and kind of the
illusion that we have
an allergy to those
particular things of a more
genetic nature versus
what's actually going on
with our antibodies?
>> GROUP: What happens
is over a period of time
because of the sugar, because of
the meat, which is very acidic,
because when you
mix foods together,
like when you mix dairy and
carbohydrates and proteins
together, they can alter
the acids in the stomach,
and sometimes the acids go in.
Also people are not chewing
their food properly anymore.
And they're not
allowing the food
to mix with the
enzymes in their mouth.
Talking about back
then, it was very
important to chew your food,
chew your food, chew your food.
>> REGINA: Well,
you ate communally.
>> GROUP: I can remember
my parents saying that all
the time.
>> REGINA: And if you ate with
a lot of people and you're all
chatting over your lunch
or your dinner together,
there was time to do that.
It was a different pace.
>> GROUP: So what's happened
is you've gone to carbonated
beverages, which are very
acidic with meals, actually.
You've gone with dairy,
milk, which is pasteurized,
which becomes acidic and
causes damage to the bowel.
You've got gluten, which
20 years ago started
to be genetically modified.
And you have gliadin in
that, and that wreaks havoc
on the intestinal lining.
You have all these
different things
from childhood,
even formulas which
cause problems in the
guts of young children.
And then you have a lack of
the fresh organic vegetables
and fruits which
are going to help
heal the intestinal lining.
So you have an acid component
that slowly eats away
at the lining of the
intestines, and then
that causes leaky gut syndrome.
And what leaky gut syndrome
is tiny little holes
that these chemicals and
toxins can leak through--
>> REGINA: And foods,
undigested foods.
>> GROUP: --and foods and get
into the bloodstream and cause
the blood to become very acidic
and cause the liver to become
toxic and fatty and
everything else.
>> REGINA: And my
understanding is your body--
because it is foreign.
It shouldn't be coming into your
body through that route-- will
develop certain
antibodies to it.
Now it shows up as an allergen.
>> GROUP: That's
exactly what happens.
Because once it gets
into the bloodstream,
the body sees it and attacks it
and starts developing allergens
to that individual compound.
And then you become
sensitive to it.
It's really your body telling
you something's wrong.
Because the body always
wants to give you a sign.
So you know you have
something wrong.
You either have gas or bloating
or stomach pain or something
like that, and
your body's saying,
hello, I don't really agree with
what you're putting in here.
What's happening is this stuff's
going into the bloodstream.
And you go to the
doctor and you say,
I'm having stomach
pains and all that,
and then he puts you on
a prescription laxative.
He puts you on something to
control the hydrochloric acid
in your stomach.
And then you've covered up
what your body's saying to fix,
and now you have multiple
other side effects--
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Now you're exacerbating it.
>> GROUP: --because of the
prescription medications.
And then six months
down the line,
you're going to be back on
more prescription medications.
Now the philosophy in
the medical community
is to get you on prescription
medications as early in life
as they possibly can, even two
years old, three years old,
so they can keep you on
medications from age two
or three all the
way until you die.
>> REGINA: I interviewed one
gastroenterologist named Becky
Natrajan, and she got
out of the industry.
She had a very
successful practice,
but she was horrified
when one of her patients,
who she had not
been able to help,
kept coming back year after
year, degenerating so quickly.
Came back into her office
after a year absence
and looked fabulous-- she didn't
know it was the same woman--
and asked her, what
happened to you?
She said, I'm only
here for one reason,
to tell you you're
killing people.
I went off of this,
this, and this.
And it was such a
profound moment, she said,
I can't keep doing this.
And she went to other means
of cleansing and such.
But nonetheless, she
said the drug reps
are bringing around
little bouquets of cookies
and sandwich baskets
two or three times a day
even to her office.
And that that was the agenda,
get them on by, certainly,
by five, by the time
they go to school.
Get them on drugs, keep
them on, cradle to grave.
That is sick.
It's a really sick agenda.
And I know, obviously, we're
preaching to the choir here,
but this is something
that we have
to take into consideration.
When you go to your doctor
and they make a prescription,
this is part of a
much larger agenda.
It's not about
your health, right?
>> GROUP: It is.
It's sick.
The good news is people are
starting to slowly wake up.
They're starting to realize.
Parents are becoming
more educated,
because now you're
getting those parents,
because of the
internet, number one,
but you're getting those
parents that are more savvy.
They watched their parents die.
They're in their 40s now.
They're in their 30s.
And even the younger
generation is
starting to catch on
to this, and they're
starting to learn more
about the natural medicine,
and they're starting
to see the effects of--
>> REGINA: Yeah.
It's starting to happen.
>> GROUP: --pharmaceuticals.
>> REGINA: The revolution
is beginning to happen.
We're going to
throw a picture up
that shows your
healthy intestines
versus your
unhealthy intestines.
Now when all these things
start to break down
and people can't even
go anymore-- as you say,
constipation is an epidemic--
so you throw a laxative at it.
What are you actually
doing if you're
throwing a laxative
at it when you
have such a weak-looking
intestine, as is indicated
in the illustration here?
>> GROUP: What happens, what we
talked about with all the acids
and everything and
then the constipation,
people have a hard time going.
And there's another
factor that I
found that's extremely
important to a healthy bowel
or an unhealthy bowel, and that
is the parasympathetic nervous
system versus the
sympathetic nervous system.
The parasympathetic
system is when
you're happy, when
you're relaxed.
The sympathetic is
the fight or flight.
What happens is most people's
digestive tract stays
in a sympathetic state.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GROUP: And when it's
in a sympathetic state,
your body doesn't want
to go to the bathroom.
>> REGINA: It's
contracted, yeah.
>> GROUP: Yes, it's contracted,
and it's not using that
peristaltic waves, relaxing
waves to move everything down
slowly so you can have
normal bowel moments.
So when people live in the high
state of anxiety and stress
and everything, they're really
restricting their intestines
from working properly.
Now the muscles that surround
the intestines, because they're
contracted so much and
because of the acid that's
burning through
the neuron endings
that the muscles use to keep
that peristaltic motion going,
what we've found is
by the age of 30,
especially in anybody
who's overweight,
their muscles have
atrophied down.
It's like if you don't use
your muscles you lose them.
What happens is the
nerves for the muscles
around the intestines, they
have no clue what to do.
They're firing half the time.
They're contracted
half the time,
because it's directly
related on stress levels.
Prescription
medications mess it up.
So that contributes
to the strictures
in the bowel from the
image, the colitis
sometimes in some parts of
the bowel, the Irritable Bowel
Syndrome.
All that is different
parts of the bowel
that are just being damaged.
And once your muscles
have atrophied,
unfortunately we
haven't found a way
to build those muscles back up.
You can't have your
intestines in there
lifting weights or something.
>> REGINA: Is that why then
people go to Costco and buy
huge containers--
>> GROUP: That's why--
>> REGINA: --of laxatives?
>> GROUP: --they go
and get laxatives.
And to talk about the
laxatives, the laxatives
do more harm than good.
The laxatives, they suck
water from your system.
Because most laxatives
are osmotic laxatives.
And what they're
designed to do is
to pull water in to
flush everything out.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GROUP: You have
fiber laxatives,
bulk-forming laxatives, and
then you have osmotic laxatives.
The bulk-forming would be
like your psyllium husk
or your major brands
with all the fiber.
>> REGINA: Those cause a lot of
irritation in a lot of people.
>> GROUP: They cause
a lot of irritation.
Plus all that fiber usually
is genetically modified,
or it's coming from
China and India.
It's been irradiated.
It's extremely toxic.
It might be contaminated with
arsenic, lead, everything else.
That's one of the things that
we still don't have requirements
for is to test this stuff.
Because most herbs, even in the
majority of herbal supplements,
still come from China and
India, all the cheap ones.
And still the majority of
people out there buy their stuff
from a drugstore,
from a pharmacy,
from a grocery store, or one
of those big wholesale stores
out there.
And what they're
getting is they're
getting all kinds
of toxic ingredients
in those that are even
damaging the bowel even more.
>> REGINA: OK.
So let's say somebody,
they're over the age of 30.
This has happened.
The action within the
intestines has slowed down,
is not working properly.
As you say, the muscles
have started atrophying.
What do you have people do then?
Obviously you have
to change the diet
and have a lot of
fresh bulk and such,
but what else can you do
if that's not working?
>> GROUP: The first thing I
have them do is chew their food
until it's a liquid
before they swallow it,
so the natural enzymes in their
mouth are able to break down
the food.
Then I usually have them take
an enzyme supplement too,
which is going to
help them break
all the different types
of food particles down.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> GROUP: The next
thing I have them do--
and this goes back to your
question about people who have
allergies to certain
things in foods.
A lot of people now
have different allergies
to herbal products as well.
And one thing that's
working really good
is I try to tell people
to put themselves
in a parasympathetic
state before they eat.
>> REGINA: Meaning relaxed.
>> GROUP: Meaning relaxed.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GROUP: But here's the thing.
How many people do you know that
eat while they're watching TV?
That puts you in a sympathetic.
They eat in a restaurant.
They eat really fast,
which puts you in a--
>> REGINA: Or driving.
>> GROUP: --sympathetic.
>> REGINA: That's the worst.
>> GROUP: They eat driving--
>> REGINA: Walking, standing up.
>> GROUP: --which
is sympathetic.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> GROUP: When you evaluate
99% of the time people eat,
they're eating in a
sympathetic state.
So what I have them
do is the fastest way
to go from sympathetic to
parasympathetic is deep
breathing.
Sit down with your meal,
appreciate your meal
that you have, sit
there, and just
take some time,
nine deep breaths.
It takes probably a minute or
so to do, nine deep breaths,
and then eat your meal.
>> REGINA: And
you've switched over.
>> GROUP: And you've put
yourself into parasympathetic.
Here's another thing.
It's very hard for your body
to process and break down meals
when you're in a sympathetic
state as well, which means--
>> REGINA: It's like you're
in a state of emergency.
>> GROUP: Exactly.
That you're not going to
be able to absorb, utilize,
or transport your
nutrients properly.
That's why you have people
that are eating but they're
malnourished, because they can't
get the nutrients that they
need because they're
in a sympathetic state.
>> REGINA: Now there's
something else you also do,
and that's the use of oxygen.
And when I say oxygen, you
have a particular product,
which I have used off and on for
a few years, called Oxy-Powder.
But that is an
alternative to using
an herbal type of solution
to constipation, right?
But also it has more
benefits than that.
But talk about the
concept of the Oxy-Powder,
rather than the label.
>> GROUP: Well, the concept
started because I said,
oh my gosh, if there's
a million toxins coming
into the intestines
on a daily basis,
how can we get rid of
those toxins as fast
as they're coming in?
What's something
somebody can do for that?
You know how hard it would be
to tell everybody on the planet
to start and manage
their own organic garden
and only start eating fruits
for breakfast and organic foods
and fruits and
vegetables and live
foods that are
going to be there?
That's something
we would ultimately
like to be doing with everybody.
But what is
something that people
can do on a daily basis
or every other day
to get rid of all
those toxins that
are coming into their
system, but something that's
going to be safe and something
that's going to be beneficial?
So I started looking at all
the herbs that were used.
And all the herbs,
like cascara sagrada,
senna, psyllium, stuff
like that, marshmallow
that are there to clean
the bowel, if you use those
over a period of time,
they can cause damage
to the bowel, permanent
damage to the bowel.
So that was out.
Because what are you going to
do, have somebody do this two
days and then wait three weeks
and then do another two days?
Because you want something
that would be beneficial
that they could use
on a regular basis.
So then I started
looking into oxygen.
And oxygen, it's used by
every cell in the body.
We take 30,000 breaths
every single day.
And the fact of
the matter is we've
gone from 28% oxygen before
the Industrial Revolution
100 years ago to even levels
of 6% oxygen in the air
now in some cities.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GROUP: Now base that--
>> REGINA: It's serious.
>> GROUP: --fact on all the
fossil fuels, the benzenes,
the chemtrails, all
the other toxins,
the coal-fired power plants,
which are spewing mercury fumes
into the air, our oxygen
content has gone down.
Oxygen is vital
for us to survive.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
>> GROUP: But it wasn't just
oxygen O2 that we needed
to clean the bowels.
It was going to
be something that
was a reactive form of oxygen.
Because we needed
a compound that
was completely safe
and natural for someone
to take but that
was going to bond to
or neutralize the chemicals
and the toxins in the body.
Most chemicals and toxins
have a positive charge.
Oxygen has a negative charge.
An oxygen singlet are
called monatomic oxygen.
And then something that
would be released slowly
over a period of time.
Because the average
transit time--
a normal transit time from
the time you eat from the time
that you have a bowel
movement would be 18 hours.
We haven't seen that in ages.
>> REGINA: What's normal now?
>> GROUP: 72 hours.
>> REGINA: Woah.
Seriously three days--
>> GROUP: 72 hours.
>> REGINA: --from the time
you eat until you eliminate?
>> GROUP: Yes.
>> REGINA: That's disgusting--
>> GROUP: That is.
That is.
>> REGINA: --really
when you think about it.
Ew.
>> GROUP: So just
think about 72 hours,
all those chemicals
and everything being
in your system.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> GROUP: So what I wanted to do
was to find a way to stabilize
a reactive oxygen
species onto a compound.
And then someone could take
it, and it would release oxygen
in their system.
And even some extra oxygen might
go into the bloodstream, which
would be great, because it
would clean up in the blood.
And that led us to creating
an oxygen intestinal cleanser.
>> REGINA: So how does it differ
from using a standard type
of laxative, for example?
>> GROUP: The damage
it's going to cause.
The oxygen cleanser,
number one, is
going to give you extra energy.
It's going to give
you extra oxygen.
Which oxygen by itself
we were using for cancer,
because you can use ozone
therapies or oxygen therapies.
And oxygen's just an
amazing immune stimulant.
It helps stop the aging process.
It repairs your tissues.
>> REGINA: But does it
still move things along?
>> GROUP: Well, it does.
Because what happens is through
an oxidation reduction reaction
it turns the solid matter into
a liquid or a gaseous form--
>> REGINA: Oh, interesting.
Yes.
>> GROUP: --through
oxidation reduction.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GROUP: So what happens is
you might feel like you have
diarrhea or like you're taking
a laxative or you have a bunch
of water.
But really what
it's doing is it's
like that commercial with
the million oxygen bubbles
and everything.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GROUP: If you can just
picture a bunch of bubbles
chewing up a solid matter
and just dissolving it
into a liquid, that's exactly
what happens in your system.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Well, and it does
work really nicely.
What about MegaH?
I know you have a lot of
respect for Patrick Flanagan.
And that's another
part of the equation
in terms of our overall health.
Can you talk a
little bit about what
that technology is
for just a second?
We have about 10 minutes
left, and there's
some things I want to get into.
>> GROUP: Well, it's
all about antioxidants.
Antioxidants are
substances that go through
and bind to free
radicals in the body.
And really the whole
free radical conversation
and the damage of free
radicals is nothing more
than the medical
profession not telling you
that the chemicals in food
and the toxins in food
and the heavy metals, those
are all free radicals.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GROUP: So the MegaH is
nothing more than a hydrogen
donor.
And a hydrogen is
the same as oxygen.
A radical oxygen is 0 negative,
01 with a negative charge.
And a hydrogen is H1
with a negative charge.
So it pretty much works the same
as a reactive oxygen species,
but it's a very
powerful antioxidant.
>> REGINA: Do they
work symbiotically?
>> GROUP: They do.
Because--
>> REGINA: That's
what I was wondering.
Yeah.
>> GROUP: --H2O is water.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GROUP: So two hydrogens
and one oxygen is water.
But they're binded together.
But when you put
them in singlet form,
they can actually bind
the different toxins
and free radicals
in the system--
>> REGINA: And pull them.
>> GROUP: --and help pull them
out and actually maybe create
some water at the same time.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
I have a lot of respect for
both of those technologies,
so I just thought it
was worth bringing up.
Because I think they do
work synergistically,
as you well know.
>> GROUP: It's great to bring
that up because if someone
wants-- and the hydration
factor, you see,
we were talking
about dehydration,
and that's another big factor
of why people aren't going
to the bathroom.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GROUP: So when you take
the MegaH or the MegaHydrate
or Patrick Flanagan's product,
that's going to cause--
>> REGINA: It's all
the same, by the way.
It just has different names.
>> GROUP: It's the
same thing, yes.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GROUP: Take one of those
with a glass of water,
it's going to super hydrate you.
And on the topic of water,
most water these days
is so contaminated
that you can drink it
and it won't even hydrate you,
because the surface tension
is so high it can't even
get into your cells.
>> REGINA: Right.
OK.
So now we have so much
more to talk about.
But one of the things
that I found interesting--
and you had forwarded a copy of
this particular article to me--
had to do with the gut
and the health of the gut
and depression and anxiety,
that the gut is really
the base of what ends
up being your mood.
Can you talk about
that a little bit?
>> GROUP: Well, since
everything with the studies
of the appendix and how
the appendix regulates
the neurological
system and everything--
and that's interesting to
note because, going back
to the cancer patients, yes,
there is a study that just came
out that links anxiety
and depression to the gut,
which means when
the gut is damaged,
when these toxins are
entering the bloodstream,
it causes anxiety
and depression.
And when people don't
have the right amount
of the good probiotics
that they need--
see, a lot of these
probiotics, which
are the beneficial
bacteria in your gut,
those produce
vitamins and minerals.
And sometimes those actually
produce serotonin and chemicals
that can keep you calm as well.
As a matter of fact,
serotonin, the main production
is in the gut.
But not only that, it's
hard for that serotonin
to get or it might be bonded
to some other chemical
by the time-- it might not
even make it to the brain
where it's supposed to be
because of all the damage
that people have.
When we started
cleaning out people,
we were addressing anger issues
and depression and anxiety.
But when we started cleaning
the gut and repairing the gut,
a lot of those symptoms
of anxiety and depression
started going away,
which was an amazing side
effect of cleansing.
No more anti-anxiety drugs,
no more antidepressants,
and people started to
realize, oh my gosh,
I'm not just crazy and
depressed and have anxiety.
All this stuff was
coming from the food
I was putting in, the
chemicals I was putting in,
and because my gut wasn't
clean and my body wasn't clean.
The liver can't even
process half of this stuff.
It's so congested.
So it just goes and
gets stored in organs.
>> REGINA: And so people go
to their back up behaviors
of grabbing a muffin and a mocha
to create an artificial kind
of serotonin response, really.
And then they're just causing
more damage and more damage.
So anyway, I thought it was
worth bringing that one up.
What about weight loss?
Once you start cleaning out your
guts, what happens to people?
There are a lot of people I know
that really don't eat that much
food and even eat what they
think is a fairly decent
quality of food but cannot lose
the weight on their bodies.
And let's just not
talk about exercise,
because we know
that's part of it.
Let's just talk about the
kind of messy guts part of it
once you clean the guts out.
>> GROUP: Once the body is able
to actually function again,
the weight comes off.
And I've always said
this for many years,
because we figured this
out with weight loss.
Most of people that are
sick are overweight.
Once we had them do not
necessarily the intestinal
cleanse-- yes, people
would lose 4 to 12
to even sometimes 20 pounds
with an intestinal cleanse,
but that's just because they
had so much garbage in it,
it wasn't really fat loss.
Once they completed three
liver and gallbladder cleanses
is when the weight
started to drop.
That's when we started linking
weight loss to congested liver.
Because the liver is
what processes your fat.
It's what regulates
your metabolism.
It's the main organ which
controls the fat stores
and burning the fat stores.
So the phase one and phase
two detoxification systems
are the liver.
So I wrote a book, "The 10
Super Secrets to Weight Loss."
That book number one
secret to weight loss
is do three liver and
gallbladder cleanses.
Clean the liver, and then
the weight starts coming off.
And the second
key to weight loss
is not mixing certain
foods together as well,
because you want to let your
body naturally burn that fat
and utilize the nutrients that
it needs eating healthier.
>> REGINA: And you're a big
proponent of doing things
in kind of a gentle
way and taking time.
Don't shock the body by suddenly
pulling yourself off-- well,
other than smoking or
something-- right away.
And does that go for
the cleanses as well?
Because I think a lot of people
are discouraged cleansing,
because they try it and they
just feel sicker than a dog
the first day out of the chute.
Do you recommend ways
that you can do it
that are much more gentle?
>> GROUP: We pretty
much designed a program,
like a nine-step body cleanse
that people can do which slowly
takes them through.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> GROUP: Everybody's different.
It depends on who you are, where
you are, what your diet is.
We try to simplify it to
reduce the amount of symptoms.
But another thing
that we tell people
is that's just one more reason
why you should continue.
Because if your body is
giving you headaches now
or if you feel bad,
that's a good sign
that your body is starting
to eliminate the toxins.
And drink more water,
flush those things out.
And we always say give
your body 72 hours.
By the third day
or the fourth day,
you should be feeling better.
>> REGINA: That's good.
>> GROUP: But going into
after we start cleansing,
at the same time we're educating
individuals on what the things
are that are causing their
problems and then replacing
those with natural replacements.
>> REGINA: And you and I
are going to have a second
discussion on all
of those things,
how the toxins come into the
body and the array of sources
of toxins, in a separate
one-hour discussion.
And meanwhile, for
anybody that wants
to take a look at "The
Green Body Cleanse," that's
a really good place to start.
So again, if you want a
better understanding of how
your guts work, you can go
to globalhealingcenter.com,
and you can find "The
Green Body Cleanse" book
there along with
other products that
are beneficial to
the colon care.
So in our next
conversation we'll
be looking at the toxins
in our food and homes.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.